# PNPM

Date: 2025-04-24

Status: accepted

## Context

When setting up this project, we had to decide which package manager to use. The options were:

- npm
- yarn
- pnpm

We have experience with npm and yarn, but when starting this project, we explicitly wanted to use a workspace/monorepo.
After exploring all three options, it becamse clear that pnpm was the best fit. Mostly because:

- pnpm can isolate dependencies to a global store, which is great for docker images. we can essentially cache the pnpm-lock.yaml file into an obscure path on the image and then installs are internet free.
- pnpm has the most flexible hoisting logic. Experimenting with fully hoisted and fully flat, the default beahvior of pnpm works great for our use case.
- pnpm supports a lot of what you would get out of a tool like lerna,nx,turbo out of the box. Specifically running commands topologically based on dependency ordering, running commands in parallel, running commands using glob patterns etc.
- pnpm is extremely fast and safe. Because we can prefetch dependencies during a docker build, we can turn our install strategy to offline during container runs. That means every image defines its dependencies during the build and installs are immutable. That is fast and safe.

## Decision

We will use pnpm as our package manager. We will not use turbo repo as of now as most of the important features
we would have gotten from it we are getting from pnpm out of the box.

## Consequences

- Folks need to have pnpm installed on their host machines to develop. This is partially mitigated by supporting devcontainers.
- We will need to document the pnpm workflow for this project.
- You need to remember to type the P before npm.
