# ZX

Date: 2025-04-24

Status: accepted

## Context

When developing this project, we use docker compose to run everything. However, our docker compose files depend on
some environment variables to be set. This can happen ephemerally in the make file or on the host shell environment,
or we could persist them in a .env file. Persisting makes things more reproducible and easier to reason about.

So the question is how to get the .env file to be created when we need it without manual effort. We could have used pure
make to do this, but there is some validation logic that needs to run inorder to ensure inputs are correct and outputs
are appropraitely derived from the state and the inputs.

We could have used docker compose, run a "setup" container before running the other services. THe problem with this is
our docker compose files depend on the output of this setup process so we would either have to create a separate compose
file with a custom image or we are running in circles.

We could use scripts running on the host using node modules, but this isn't great because you then need to ensure the host
node_modules isn't incompatible with the container node_modules.

## Decision

ZX to the rescue. ZX not only gives us more than we need in terms of functional scripting, but we can run the CLI with
--install and any 3rd party dependencies imported by the scripts will be installed in a separate node_modules directory.

THis is great because it means we can run the scripts like any other package in the project and just use a single entrypoint
to run them. It keeps the DX pretty simple as you can just add [scripts](../packages//scripts/src/) to the directory and run them

```bash
make script "<name>"
```

## Consequences

- We probably have to figure out a way to add arguments to scripts, but so far we haven't needed them.
- We cannot write the scripts in typescript without a lot of headache, so they are vanilla js.
- We cannot consistently run the scripts in the container as the node_modules are installed on the host. (that's not an issue though as these scripts are designed to be run on the host)
